Hey,
my name is Toby Richards
and today we get started with high speed photography
using Hähnel Captur.
The photo I want to take
is from a fire eater
at the moment that the fire mass is at its largest.
The timing to make the right shot is very difficult,
but by using the light sensor of the Captur
we can automate the process
and let the camera relax at the right time.
We use the Hähnel Captur Module Pro for this shoot
with a Captur receiver and transmitter mounted on the camera
and two extra receivers
each attached to a flash.
As soon as our fire eater starts
the Module Pro will be triggered by the flame
and after a set delay the camera will relax,
simultaneously with both flash units.
We take pictures in an old metal factory in London
with very little light.
The fact that the Captur system works wirelessly
makes everything a lot easier
and much safer.
The Captur system is very versatile
and can also be used to trigger multiple studio flash units.
With a range of 100 meters, it is also a fantastic system for outdoors.
The Captur transmitter can easily be slid into the camera's hot shoe
and the supplied cable connects the receiver with the camera remote control.
Synchronizing the transmitter and the flash receivers
and then from the Module Pro with the camera receiver
only takes a few seconds.
Using multiple flash units is very simple:
this only requires an extra receiver per flash unit.
A brief instruction
a few test shots
and then I activate the Module Pro
to check whether it is being triggered by the flame.
I lower the sensitivity of the Module Pro for this shoot
so that I am sure that it is only triggered by the mass of fire
and not by the burning torch.
We are ready.
While our fire eaters are getting ready,
I set a small delay on the system.
The photo is good,
but I have not set enough delay on the Captur,
so I do a little adjustment,
put in another fire eater and try again.
I have now set the delay too long and the shot is too late
so I choose the middle way and reduce the delay on the Module Pro slightly again.
Another short instruction and I am ready.
View the rest of the videos in this series via the links below
or visit the Degreef & Partner website for more information about the Captur.